README.md, before:

# Molassembler library
## Overview

Molassembler is a C++ library that aims to facilitate crossings between
Cartesian and graph representations of molecules. It provides the necessary
functionality to represent a molecule as a graph, modify it in graph space, and
generate coordinates from graphs. It can capture the absolute configuration
of multidentate and haptic inorganic molecules from positional data and
generate non-superposable stereopermutations as output.


## Features

- Molecule construction from many types of information. 
- Stereocenters are treated from trigonal pyramidal all the way up to square
  antiprismatic local geometries.
- High-temperature approximation is invoked by default to avoid considering
  inverting nitrogen centers as stereocenters, but this is optional. Even in
  the high-temperature approximation, nitrogen centers whose substituents
  form a strained cycle and hence do not invert rapidly are considered a
  stereocenter.
- All stereocenter permutations are generated with relative statistical
  occurrence weights. Linking of ligands (denticity) is properly considered.
  Several classes of haptic ligands are supported.
- Editing of molecules preservers chiral information by default, and is highly
  configurable.
- Molecules can be canonicalized for fast isomorphism tests. Canonicalization
  can be customized to use subsets of the available information for vertex
  coloring if desired.
- Ranking algorithms are nearly fully IUPAC Blue Book 2013 compliant, extended
  to larger symmetries.
- Stochastic conformer generation with Distance Geometry
  - Unassigned stereocenters are randomly assigned from relative statistical
    occurrence weights.
  - Full metrization during distance matrix generation scales with approximately
    N^3.5. Achieved via shortest paths calculation in graph using GOR1 algorithm.
  - Can optionally choose four-atom or 10% partial metrization.
  - Embedding and refinement is performed in four spatial dimensions.


## Integrating

This library requires the C++14 standard.

Dependencies:

- Boost >= 1.64
- Eigen >= 3
- SCINE Utils > 0.1.0
- (BLAS library, added if detected during compilation)


Can currently be compiled with:

- [x] GCC >= 7
- [x] Clang >= 4
- [ ] MSVC (compiler compliance issues with C++14 `constexpr` code)

Windows compatibility is in progress. In the meantime, consider options like
MinGW (compiles with GCC) or Visual Studio Codegen with Clang to create Windows
libraries.

Unowned libraries included this distribution:

- RingDecomposerLib[^1]: Unique Ring Family[^2] cycle detection
- Outcome (until released in boost): Improved error propagation
- nlohmann/json: JSON serialization
- spectra: ARPACK-like interface built on top of Eigen
- nauty[^3]: Graph automorphism determination and canonical labeling

This library uses CMake to model dependencies and make builds
platform-independent.


## Compilation

To build, run these commands starting at the main directory. 

```bash
$ mkdir build-release
$ cd build-release
$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
$ make
```

## Tests

We recommend running the tests in a release build of the library. The tests are
split into two sets. After building the library and tests, run:

- Brief end-to-end tests: `make check`
- Library validation: `make validate`
- Both: `make test`


## Documentation

The documentation can be built from the root directory with:

```bash
$ cd build
$ cmake ..
$ make doc
```

This generates the Doxygen documentation in a `doc` subfolder.

[^1]: Flachsenberg, F.; Andresen, N.; Rarey, M. RingDecomposerLib: An
  Open-Source implementation of Unique Ring Families and Other Cycle Bases. J.
  Chem. Inf.  Model., 2017, 57 (2), pp 122–126

[^2]: Kolodzik, A.; Urbaczek, S.; Rarey, M. Unique Ring Families: A Chemically
  Meaningful Description of Molecular Ring Topologies. J. Chem. Inf. Model.,
  2012, 52 (8), pp 2013–2021

[^3]: McKay, Brendan D.; Adolfo Piperno. Practical graph isomorphism, II.
  J. Symb. Comput., 2014, 60, pp 94-112.

Commit message:

CMake: Fix make test & install documentations
Fix make test
- enable_testing needs to be in top-level CMakeLists
- Remove add_test from validation binaries
- Remove make check and make validate targets

Install documentations
- Doxygen C++ and sphinx python documentations are now installed into
  share (if buildable)

Guard python testing, installing and documentation against the required
python packages

Fix some minor documentation issues warned about by Doxygen

README.md, after:

# Molassembler library
## Overview

Molassembler is a C++ library that aims to facilitate crossings between
Cartesian and graph representations of molecules. It provides the necessary
functionality to represent a molecule as a graph, modify it in graph space, and
generate coordinates from graphs. It can capture the absolute configuration
of multidentate and haptic inorganic molecules from positional data and
generate non-superposable stereopermutations as output.


## Features

- Molecule construction from many types of information. 
- Stereocenters are treated from trigonal pyramidal all the way up to square
  antiprismatic local geometries.
- High-temperature approximation is invoked by default to avoid considering
  inverting nitrogen centers as stereocenters, but this is optional. Even in
  the high-temperature approximation, nitrogen centers whose substituents
  form a strained cycle and hence do not invert rapidly are considered a
  stereocenter.
- All stereocenter permutations are generated with relative statistical
  occurrence weights. Linking of ligands (denticity) is properly considered.
  Several classes of haptic ligands are supported.
- Editing of molecules preservers chiral information by default, and is highly
  configurable.
- Molecules can be canonicalized for fast isomorphism tests. Canonicalization
  can be customized to use subsets of the available information for vertex
  coloring if desired.
- Ranking algorithms are nearly fully IUPAC Blue Book 2013 compliant, extended
  to larger symmetries.
- Stochastic conformer generation with Distance Geometry
  - Unassigned stereocenters are randomly assigned from relative statistical
    occurrence weights.
  - Full metrization during distance matrix generation scales with approximately
    N^3.5. Achieved via shortest paths calculation in graph using GOR1 algorithm.
  - Can optionally choose four-atom or 10% partial metrization.
  - Embedding and refinement is performed in four spatial dimensions.


## Integrating

This library requires the C++14 standard.

Dependencies:

- Boost >= 1.64
- Eigen >= 3
- SCINE Utils > 0.1.0
- (BLAS library, added if detected during compilation)


Can currently be compiled with:

- [x] GCC >= 7
- [x] Clang >= 4
- [ ] MSVC (compiler compliance issues with C++14 `constexpr` code)

Windows compatibility is in progress. In the meantime, consider options like
MinGW (compiles with GCC) or Visual Studio Codegen with Clang to create Windows
libraries.

Unowned libraries included this distribution:

- RingDecomposerLib[^1]: Unique Ring Family[^2] cycle detection
- Outcome (until released in boost): Improved error propagation
- nlohmann/json: JSON serialization
- spectra: ARPACK-like interface built on top of Eigen
- nauty[^3]: Graph automorphism determination and canonical labeling

This library uses CMake to model dependencies and make builds
platform-independent.


## Compilation

To build, run these commands starting at the main directory. 

```bash
$ mkdir build-release
$ cd build-release
$ cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
$ make
```

## Tests

We recommend running the tests in a release build of the library. After
building the library and tests, run `make test`. For the python bindings, the
python module `pytest` must be available.


## Documentation

If `doxygen` is installed, the C++ library documentation is built too. If the
python bindings are built and the sphinx module is available, the python
binding documentation is generated too.


[^1]: Flachsenberg, F.; Andresen, N.; Rarey, M. RingDecomposerLib: An
  Open-Source implementation of Unique Ring Families and Other Cycle Bases. J.
  Chem. Inf.  Model., 2017, 57 (2), pp 122–126

[^2]: Kolodzik, A.; Urbaczek, S.; Rarey, M. Unique Ring Families: A Chemically
  Meaningful Description of Molecular Ring Topologies. J. Chem. Inf. Model.,
  2012, 52 (8), pp 2013–2021

[^3]: McKay, Brendan D.; Adolfo Piperno. Practical graph isomorphism, II.
  J. Symb. Comput., 2014, 60, pp 94-112.
